.TH UCSIM 1
.SH NAME
uCsim \- Micro\-controller simulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B s51|sz80|savr|sxa|shc08|spdk|sst7|sstm8|stlc|sp1516|sm6809
.BR \-t cpu_type
.BR \-X freq[k|M]
.BR \-R seed
.BR \-C cfg_file
.BR \-e command
.BR \-c file
.BR \-Z portnum
.BR \-k portnum
.BR \-s file
.BR \-S options
.BR \-I options
.BR \-p prompt
.BR \-P
.BR \-o colors
.BR \-l
.BR \-b
.BR \-B
.BR \-g
.BR \-G
.BR \-a nr
.BR \-w
.BR \-V
.BR \-v
.BR \-H
.BR \-h
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I s51
command is used to simulate MCS51 controller family.
.I sz80
command is Z80 simulator.
.PP
.B Options of the command
.TP
.B \-t cpu_type
Specifies type of the controller. Use \-H to list possible values.
.PP
.TP
.B \-X freq[k|M]
XTAL frequency in Hz, Use
.I k
or
.I M
suffix to specify frequency in kHz or MHz.
.PP
.TP
.B \-R seed
Set the random number generator seed.
.PP
.TP
.B \-C file
Read initial commands from
.I file
and execute them.
.PP
.TP
.B \-e command
Execute
.I command
at program startup (before config file).
.PP
.TP
.B \-c file
Open command console on
.I file
(use \- for std in/out).
.PP
.TP
.B \-Z portnum
Use
.I localhost:portnum
for command console.
.PP
.TP
.B \-k portnum
Use
.I localhost:portnum
for serial I/O.
.PP
.TP
.B \-s file
Connect serial interface uart0 to
.I file
.PP
.TP
.B \-S options
.I options
is a comma separated list of options according to serial interface. Know options are:
.br
.I uart=nr
number of uart (default=0)
.br
.I in=file
serial input will be read from file named `file'.
.br
.I out=file
serial output will be written to `file'.
.br
.I port=nr
Use localhost:nr as server for serial line.
.br
.I iport=nr
Use localhost:nr as server for serial input.
.br
.I oport=nr
Use localhost:nr as server for serial onput.
.PP
.TP
.B \-I options
.I options
is a comma separated list of options according to simulator interface. Known options are:
.br
.I if=memory[address]
turn on interface on given memory location.
.br
.I in=file
specify input file for IO.
.br
.I out=file
specify output file for IO.
.PP
.TP
.B \-p prompt
Specify string for prompt.
.PP
.TP
.B \-P
Prompt is a null ('\\0') character.
.PP
.TP
.B \-o colors
List of color specification: what=colspec,... where colspec is :
separated list of color options e.g.: prompt=b:white:black (bold white
on black).
.PP
.TP
.B \-l
Use colors of the light theme (default is dark).
.PP
.TP
.B \-b
Black & white (non-color) console.
.PP
.TP
.B \-B
Beep on breakpoints.
.PP
.TP
.B \-g
Go, start simulation.
.PP
.TP
.B \-G
Go, start simulation, quit on stop.
.PP
.TP
.B \-a nr
Specify size of variable space (default=256).
.PP
.TP
.B \-w
Writable flash.
.PP
.TP
.B \-V
Verbose mode.
.PP
.TP
.B \-v
Print out version number and quit.
.PP
.TP
.B \-H
Print out types of known CPUs and quit.
.PP
.TP
.B \-h
Print out this help and quit.
.SH EXAMPLES
None yet.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sdcc(1), sdcdb(1).
.SH BUGS
Probably many.
.SH AUTHORS
Daniel Drotos,
Gunar Holm,
Sandeep Dutta,
Salvador Eduardo Tropea,
Josef Wolf,
Stephane Meyer,
Larry Doolittle,
Timothy Hurman,
Karl-Max Wagner,
Edmar Wienskoski Jr,
Alexandre Frey,
Kaido Karner,
Kalr Bongers,
Alexis Pavlov,
Davine Zanni,
Anton Persson,
Nicolas Lesser
